README.md, before:

<!-- Do not edit this file.  It is generated automatically from
README.template and MANUAL.txt via the command:
pandoc --lua-filter tools/update-readme.lua README.template -o README.md
-->

# Pandoc

[![github
release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jgm/pandoc.svg?label=current+release)](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases)
[![hackage
release](https://img.shields.io/hackage/v/pandoc.svg?label=hackage)](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pandoc)
[![homebrew](https://img.shields.io/homebrew/v/pandoc.svg)](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/pandoc)
[![stackage LTS
package](https://stackage.org/package/pandoc/badge/lts)](https://www.stackage.org/lts/package/pandoc)
[![CI
tests](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/workflows/CI%20tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/actions)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv2+-lightgray.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html)
[![pandoc-discuss on google
groups](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandoc-discuss-red.svg?style=social)](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/pandoc-discuss)

## The universal markup converter

Pandoc is a [Haskell](https://haskell.org) library for converting from
one markup format to another, and a command-line tool that uses this
library.

It can convert *from*

<div id="input-formats">

- `asciidoc` ([AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/) markup)
- `bibtex` ([BibTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/bibtex) bibliography)
- `biblatex` ([BibLaTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/biblatex) bibliography)
- `bits` ([BITS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov/extensions/bits/) XML, alias
  for `jats`)
- `commonmark` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown)
- `commonmark_x` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown with
  extensions)
- `creole` ([Creole 1.0](http://www.wikicreole.org/wiki/Creole1.0))
- `csljson` ([CSL
  JSON](https://citeproc-js.readthedocs.io/en/latest/csl-json/markup.html)
  bibliography)
- `csv` ([CSV](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4180) table)
- `tsv`
  ([TSV](https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/text/tab-separated-values)
  table)
- `djot` ([Djot markup](https://djot.net))
- `docbook` ([DocBook](https://docbook.org))
- `docx` ([Word docx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Open_XML))
- `dokuwiki` ([DokuWiki markup](https://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki))
- `endnotexml` ([EndNote XML
  bibliography](https://support.clarivate.com/Endnote/s/article/EndNote-XML-Document-Type-Definition))
- `epub` ([EPUB](http://idpf.org/epub))
- `fb2`
  ([FictionBook2](http://www.fictionbook.org/index.php/Eng:XML_Schema_Fictionbook_2.1)
  e-book)
- `gfm` ([GitHub-Flavored
  Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/)),
  or the deprecated and less accurate `markdown_github`; use
  [`markdown_github`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants)
  only if you need extensions not supported in
  [`gfm`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants).
- `haddock` ([Haddock
  markup](https://www.haskell.org/haddock/doc/html/ch03s08.html))
- `html` ([HTML](https://www.w3.org/html/))
- `ipynb` ([Jupyter
  notebook](https://nbformat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))
- `jats` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML)
- `jira`
  ([Jira](https://jira.atlassian.com/secure/WikiRendererHelpAction.jspa?section=all)/Confluence
  wiki markup)
- `json` (JSON version of native AST)
- `latex` ([LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/))
- `markdown` ([Pandoc’s
  Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown))
- `markdown_mmd`
  ([MultiMarkdown](https://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/))
- `markdown_phpextra` ([PHP Markdown
  Extra](https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/))
- `markdown_strict` (original unextended
  [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/))
- `mediawiki` ([MediaWiki
  markup](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting))
- `man` ([roff man](https://man.cx/groff_man(7)))
- `mdoc` ([mdoc](https://mandoc.bsd.lv/man/mdoc.7.html) manual page
  markup)
- `muse` ([Muse](https://amusewiki.org/library/manual))
- `native` (native Haskell)
- `odt` ([OpenDocument text
  document](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenDocument))
- `opml` ([OPML](http://dev.opml.org/spec2.html))
- `org` ([Emacs Org mode](https://orgmode.org))
- `pod` (Perl’s [Plain Old
  Documentation](https://perldoc.perl.org/perlpod))
- `pptx`
  ([PowerPoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_PowerPoint))
- `ris` ([RIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RIS_(file_format))
  bibliography)
- `rtf` ([Rich Text
  Format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Text_Format))
- `rst`
  ([reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/introduction.html))
- `t2t` ([txt2tags](https://txt2tags.org))
- `textile` ([Textile](https://textile-lang.com))
- `tikiwiki` ([TikiWiki
  markup](https://doc.tiki.org/Wiki-Syntax-Text#The_Markup_Language_Wiki-Syntax))
- `twiki` ([TWiki
  markup](https://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/TWiki/TextFormattingRules))
- `typst` ([typst](https://typst.app))
- `vimwiki` ([Vimwiki](https://vimwiki.github.io))
- `xlsx` ([Excel
  spreadsheet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Excel#File_formats))
- `xml` (XML version of native AST)
- the path of a custom Lua reader, see [Custom readers and
  writers](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#custom-readers-and-writers)
  below

</div>

It can convert *to*

<div id="output-formats">

- `ansi` (text with [ANSI escape
  codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code), for terminal
  viewing)
- `asciidoc` (modern [AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/) as interpreted by
  [AsciiDoctor](https://asciidoctor.org/))
- `asciidoc_legacy` ([AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/) as interpreted by
  [`asciidoc-py`](https://github.com/asciidoc-py/asciidoc-py)).
- `asciidoctor` (deprecated synonym for `asciidoc`)
- `bbcode` [BBCode](https://www.bbcode.org/reference.php)
- `bbcode_fluxbb` [BBCode
  (FluxBB)](https://web.archive.org/web/20210623155046/https://fluxbb.org/forums/help.php#bbcode)
- `bbcode_phpbb` [BBCode
  (phpBB)](https://www.phpbb.com/community/help/bbcode)
- `bbcode_steam` [BBCode
  (Hubzilla)](https://hubzilla.org/help/member/bbcode)
- `bbcode_hubzilla` [BBCode
  (Hubzilla)](https://hubzilla.org/help/member/bbcode)
- `bbcode_xenforo` [BBCode
  (xenForo)](https://www.xenfocus.com/community/help/bb-codes/)
- `beamer` ([LaTeX beamer](https://ctan.org/pkg/beamer) slide show)
- `bibtex` ([BibTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/bibtex) bibliography)
- `biblatex` ([BibLaTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/biblatex) bibliography)
- `chunkedhtml` (zip archive of multiple linked HTML files)
- `commonmark` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown)
- `commonmark_x` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown with
  extensions)
- `context` ([ConTeXt](https://www.contextgarden.net/))
- `csljson` ([CSL
  JSON](https://citeproc-js.readthedocs.io/en/latest/csl-json/markup.html)
  bibliography)
- `djot` ([Djot markup](https://djot.net))
- `docbook` or `docbook4` ([DocBook](https://docbook.org) 4)
- `docbook5` (DocBook 5)
- `docx` ([Word docx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Open_XML))
- `dokuwiki` ([DokuWiki markup](https://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki))
- `epub` or `epub3` ([EPUB](http://idpf.org/epub) v3 book)
- `epub2` (EPUB v2)
- `fb2`
  ([FictionBook2](http://www.fictionbook.org/index.php/Eng:XML_Schema_Fictionbook_2.1)
  e-book)
- `gfm` ([GitHub-Flavored
  Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/)),
  or the deprecated and less accurate `markdown_github`; use
  [`markdown_github`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants)
  only if you need extensions not supported in
  [`gfm`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants).
- `haddock` ([Haddock
  markup](https://www.haskell.org/haddock/doc/html/ch03s08.html))
- `html` or `html5` ([HTML](https://www.w3.org/html/),
  i.e. [HTML5](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/)/XHTML [polyglot
  markup](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-polyglot/))
- `html4` ([XHTML](https://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/) 1.0 Transitional)
- `icml` ([InDesign
  ICML](https://manualzz.com/doc/9627253/adobe-indesign-cs6-idml-cookbook))
- `ipynb` ([Jupyter
  notebook](https://nbformat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))
- `jats_archiving` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML, Archiving and
  Interchange Tag Set)
- `jats_articleauthoring` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML, Article
  Authoring Tag Set)
- `jats_publishing` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML, Journal
  Publishing Tag Set)
- `jats` (alias for `jats_archiving`)
- `jira`
  ([Jira](https://jira.atlassian.com/secure/WikiRendererHelpAction.jspa?section=all)/Confluence
  wiki markup)
- `json` (JSON version of native AST)
- `latex` ([LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/))
- `man` ([roff man](https://man.cx/groff_man(7)))
- `markdown` ([Pandoc’s
  Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown))
- `markdown_mmd`
  ([MultiMarkdown](https://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/))
- `markdown_phpextra` ([PHP Markdown
  Extra](https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/))
- `markdown_strict` (original unextended
  [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/))
- `markua` ([Markua](https://leanpub.com/markua/read))
- `mediawiki` ([MediaWiki
  markup](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting))
- `ms` ([roff ms](https://man.cx/groff_ms(7)))
- `muse` ([Muse](https://amusewiki.org/library/manual))
- `native` (native Haskell)
- `odt` ([OpenDocument text
  document](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenDocument))
- `opml` ([OPML](http://dev.opml.org/spec2.html))
- `opendocument` ([OpenDocument
  XML](https://www.oasis-open.org/2021/06/16/opendocument-v1-3-oasis-standard-published/))
- `org` ([Emacs Org mode](https://orgmode.org))
- `pdf` ([PDF](https://www.adobe.com/pdf/))
- `plain` (plain text)
- `pptx`
  ([PowerPoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_PowerPoint)
  slide show)
- `rst`
  ([reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/introduction.html))
- `rtf` ([Rich Text
  Format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Text_Format))
- `texinfo` ([GNU Texinfo](https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/))
- `textile` ([Textile](https://textile-lang.com))
- `slideous` ([Slideous](https://goessner.net/articles/slideous/) HTML
  and JavaScript slide show)
- `slidy` ([Slidy](https://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/) HTML and
  JavaScript slide show)
- `dzslides` ([DZSlides](https://paulrouget.com/dzslides/) HTML5 +
  JavaScript slide show)
- `revealjs` ([reveal.js](https://revealjs.com/) HTML5 + JavaScript
  slide show)
- `s5` ([S5](https://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/s5/) HTML and JavaScript
  slide show)
- `tei` ([TEI Simple](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple))
- `typst` ([typst](https://typst.app))
- `vimdoc`
  ([Vimdoc](https://vimhelp.org/helphelp.txt.html#help-writing))
- `xml` (XML version of native AST)
- `xwiki` ([XWiki
  markup](https://www.xwiki.org/xwiki/bin/view/Documentation/UserGuide/Features/XWikiSyntax/))
- `zimwiki` ([ZimWiki
  markup](https://zim-wiki.org/manual/Help/Wiki_Syntax.html))
- the path of a custom Lua writer, see [Custom readers and
  writers](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#custom-readers-and-writers)
  below

</div>

Pandoc can also produce PDF output via LaTeX, Groff ms, or HTML.

Pandoc’s enhanced version of Markdown includes syntax for tables,
definition lists, metadata blocks, footnotes, citations, math, and much
more. See the User’s Manual below under [Pandoc’s
Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown).

Pandoc has a modular design: it consists of a set of readers, which
parse text in a given format and produce a native representation of the
document (an *abstract syntax tree* or AST), and a set of writers, which
convert this native representation into a target format. Thus, adding an
input or output format requires only adding a reader or writer. Users
can also run custom pandoc filters to modify the intermediate AST (see
the documentation for [filters](https://pandoc.org/filters.html) and
[Lua filters](https://pandoc.org/lua-filters.html)).

Because pandoc’s intermediate representation of a document is less
expressive than many of the formats it converts between, one should not
expect perfect conversions between every format and every other. Pandoc
attempts to preserve the structural elements of a document, but not
formatting details such as margin size. And some document elements, such
as complex tables, may not fit into pandoc’s simple document model.
While conversions from pandoc’s Markdown to all formats aspire to be
perfect, conversions from formats more expressive than pandoc’s Markdown
can be expected to be lossy.

## Installing

Here’s [how to install pandoc](INSTALL.md).

## Documentation

Pandoc’s website contains a full [User’s
Guide](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html). It is also available
[here](MANUAL.txt) as pandoc-flavored Markdown. The website also
contains some [examples of the use of
pandoc](https://pandoc.org/demos.html) and a limited [online
demo](https://pandoc.org/try).

## Contributing

Pull requests, bug reports, and feature requests are welcome. Please
make sure to read [the contributor guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before
opening a new issue.

## License

© 2006-2024 John MacFarlane (jgm@berkeley.edu). Released under the
[GPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html "GNU General Public License"),
version 2 or greater. This software carries no warranty of any kind.
(See COPYRIGHT for full copyright and warranty notices.)

Commit message:

doc(cambridge patch): add docs on cambridge patch

README.md, after:

<!-- Do not edit this file.  It is generated automatically from
README.template and MANUAL.txt via the command:
pandoc --lua-filter tools/update-readme.lua README.template -o README.md
-->

# Pandoc

[![github
release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/jgm/pandoc.svg?label=current+release)](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/releases)
[![hackage
release](https://img.shields.io/hackage/v/pandoc.svg?label=hackage)](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pandoc)
[![homebrew](https://img.shields.io/homebrew/v/pandoc.svg)](https://formulae.brew.sh/formula/pandoc)
[![stackage LTS
package](https://stackage.org/package/pandoc/badge/lts)](https://www.stackage.org/lts/package/pandoc)
[![CI
tests](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/workflows/CI%20tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/jgm/pandoc/actions)
[![license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPLv2+-lightgray.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html)
[![pandoc-discuss on google
groups](https://img.shields.io/badge/pandoc-discuss-red.svg?style=social)](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/pandoc-discuss)

## The universal markup converter

Pandoc is a [Haskell](https://haskell.org) library for converting from
one markup format to another, and a command-line tool that uses this
library.

It can convert *from*

<div id="input-formats">

- `asciidoc` ([AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/) markup)
- `bibtex` ([BibTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/bibtex) bibliography)
- `biblatex` ([BibLaTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/biblatex) bibliography)
- `bits` ([BITS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov/extensions/bits/) XML, alias
  for `jats`)
- `commonmark` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown)
- `commonmark_x` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown with
  extensions)
- `creole` ([Creole 1.0](http://www.wikicreole.org/wiki/Creole1.0))
- `csljson` ([CSL
  JSON](https://citeproc-js.readthedocs.io/en/latest/csl-json/markup.html)
  bibliography)
- `csv` ([CSV](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4180) table)
- `tsv`
  ([TSV](https://www.iana.org/assignments/media-types/text/tab-separated-values)
  table)
- `djot` ([Djot markup](https://djot.net))
- `docbook` ([DocBook](https://docbook.org))
- `docx` ([Word docx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Open_XML))
- `dokuwiki` ([DokuWiki markup](https://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki))
- `endnotexml` ([EndNote XML
  bibliography](https://support.clarivate.com/Endnote/s/article/EndNote-XML-Document-Type-Definition))
- `epub` ([EPUB](http://idpf.org/epub))
- `fb2`
  ([FictionBook2](http://www.fictionbook.org/index.php/Eng:XML_Schema_Fictionbook_2.1)
  e-book)
- `gfm` ([GitHub-Flavored
  Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/)),
  or the deprecated and less accurate `markdown_github`; use
  [`markdown_github`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants)
  only if you need extensions not supported in
  [`gfm`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants).
- `haddock` ([Haddock
  markup](https://www.haskell.org/haddock/doc/html/ch03s08.html))
- `html` ([HTML](https://www.w3.org/html/))
- `ipynb` ([Jupyter
  notebook](https://nbformat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))
- `jats` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML)
- `jira`
  ([Jira](https://jira.atlassian.com/secure/WikiRendererHelpAction.jspa?section=all)/Confluence
  wiki markup)
- `json` (JSON version of native AST)
- `latex` ([LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/))
- `markdown` ([Pandoc’s
  Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown))
- `markdown_mmd`
  ([MultiMarkdown](https://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/))
- `markdown_phpextra` ([PHP Markdown
  Extra](https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/))
- `markdown_strict` (original unextended
  [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/))
- `mediawiki` ([MediaWiki
  markup](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting))
- `man` ([roff man](https://man.cx/groff_man(7)))
- `mdoc` ([mdoc](https://mandoc.bsd.lv/man/mdoc.7.html) manual page
  markup)
- `muse` ([Muse](https://amusewiki.org/library/manual))
- `native` (native Haskell)
- `odt` ([OpenDocument text
  document](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenDocument))
- `opml` ([OPML](http://dev.opml.org/spec2.html))
- `org` ([Emacs Org mode](https://orgmode.org))
- `pod` (Perl’s [Plain Old
  Documentation](https://perldoc.perl.org/perlpod))
- `pptx`
  ([PowerPoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_PowerPoint))
- `ris` ([RIS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RIS_(file_format))
  bibliography)
- `rtf` ([Rich Text
  Format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Text_Format))
- `rst`
  ([reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/introduction.html))
- `t2t` ([txt2tags](https://txt2tags.org))
- `textile` ([Textile](https://textile-lang.com))
- `tikiwiki` ([TikiWiki
  markup](https://doc.tiki.org/Wiki-Syntax-Text#The_Markup_Language_Wiki-Syntax))
- `twiki` ([TWiki
  markup](https://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/TWiki/TextFormattingRules))
- `typst` ([typst](https://typst.app))
- `vimwiki` ([Vimwiki](https://vimwiki.github.io))
- `xlsx` ([Excel
  spreadsheet](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_Excel#File_formats))
- `xml` (XML version of native AST)
- the path of a custom Lua reader, see [Custom readers and
  writers](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#custom-readers-and-writers)
  below

</div>

It can convert *to*

<div id="output-formats">

- `ansi` (text with [ANSI escape
  codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ANSI_escape_code), for terminal
  viewing)
- `asciidoc` (modern [AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/) as interpreted by
  [AsciiDoctor](https://asciidoctor.org/))
- `asciidoc_legacy` ([AsciiDoc](https://asciidoc.org/) as interpreted by
  [`asciidoc-py`](https://github.com/asciidoc-py/asciidoc-py)).
- `asciidoctor` (deprecated synonym for `asciidoc`)
- `bbcode` [BBCode](https://www.bbcode.org/reference.php)
- `bbcode_fluxbb` [BBCode
  (FluxBB)](https://web.archive.org/web/20210623155046/https://fluxbb.org/forums/help.php#bbcode)
- `bbcode_phpbb` [BBCode
  (phpBB)](https://www.phpbb.com/community/help/bbcode)
- `bbcode_steam` [BBCode
  (Hubzilla)](https://hubzilla.org/help/member/bbcode)
- `bbcode_hubzilla` [BBCode
  (Hubzilla)](https://hubzilla.org/help/member/bbcode)
- `bbcode_xenforo` [BBCode
  (xenForo)](https://www.xenfocus.com/community/help/bb-codes/)
- `beamer` ([LaTeX beamer](https://ctan.org/pkg/beamer) slide show)
- `bibtex` ([BibTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/bibtex) bibliography)
- `biblatex` ([BibLaTeX](https://ctan.org/pkg/biblatex) bibliography)
- `chunkedhtml` (zip archive of multiple linked HTML files)
- `commonmark` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown)
- `commonmark_x` ([CommonMark](https://commonmark.org) Markdown with
  extensions)
- `context` ([ConTeXt](https://www.contextgarden.net/))
- `csljson` ([CSL
  JSON](https://citeproc-js.readthedocs.io/en/latest/csl-json/markup.html)
  bibliography)
- `djot` ([Djot markup](https://djot.net))
- `docbook` or `docbook4` ([DocBook](https://docbook.org) 4)
- `docbook5` (DocBook 5)
- `docx` ([Word docx](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Open_XML))
- `dokuwiki` ([DokuWiki markup](https://www.dokuwiki.org/dokuwiki))
- `epub` or `epub3` ([EPUB](http://idpf.org/epub) v3 book)
- `epub2` (EPUB v2)
- `fb2`
  ([FictionBook2](http://www.fictionbook.org/index.php/Eng:XML_Schema_Fictionbook_2.1)
  e-book)
- `gfm` ([GitHub-Flavored
  Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown/)),
  or the deprecated and less accurate `markdown_github`; use
  [`markdown_github`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants)
  only if you need extensions not supported in
  [`gfm`](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#markdown-variants).
- `haddock` ([Haddock
  markup](https://www.haskell.org/haddock/doc/html/ch03s08.html))
- `html` or `html5` ([HTML](https://www.w3.org/html/),
  i.e. [HTML5](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/)/XHTML [polyglot
  markup](https://www.w3.org/TR/html-polyglot/))
- `html4` ([XHTML](https://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/) 1.0 Transitional)
- `icml` ([InDesign
  ICML](https://manualzz.com/doc/9627253/adobe-indesign-cs6-idml-cookbook))
- `ipynb` ([Jupyter
  notebook](https://nbformat.readthedocs.io/en/latest/))
- `jats_archiving` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML, Archiving and
  Interchange Tag Set)
- `jats_articleauthoring` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML, Article
  Authoring Tag Set)
- `jats_publishing` ([JATS](https://jats.nlm.nih.gov) XML, Journal
  Publishing Tag Set)
- `jats` (alias for `jats_archiving`)
- `jira`
  ([Jira](https://jira.atlassian.com/secure/WikiRendererHelpAction.jspa?section=all)/Confluence
  wiki markup)
- `json` (JSON version of native AST)
- `latex` ([LaTeX](https://www.latex-project.org/))
- `man` ([roff man](https://man.cx/groff_man(7)))
- `markdown` ([Pandoc’s
  Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown))
- `markdown_mmd`
  ([MultiMarkdown](https://fletcherpenney.net/multimarkdown/))
- `markdown_phpextra` ([PHP Markdown
  Extra](https://michelf.ca/projects/php-markdown/extra/))
- `markdown_strict` (original unextended
  [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/))
- `markua` ([Markua](https://leanpub.com/markua/read))
- `mediawiki` ([MediaWiki
  markup](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Help:Formatting))
- `ms` ([roff ms](https://man.cx/groff_ms(7)))
- `muse` ([Muse](https://amusewiki.org/library/manual))
- `native` (native Haskell)
- `odt` ([OpenDocument text
  document](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OpenDocument))
- `opml` ([OPML](http://dev.opml.org/spec2.html))
- `opendocument` ([OpenDocument
  XML](https://www.oasis-open.org/2021/06/16/opendocument-v1-3-oasis-standard-published/))
- `org` ([Emacs Org mode](https://orgmode.org))
- `pdf` ([PDF](https://www.adobe.com/pdf/))
- `plain` (plain text)
- `pptx`
  ([PowerPoint](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_PowerPoint)
  slide show)
- `rst`
  ([reStructuredText](https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/introduction.html))
- `rtf` ([Rich Text
  Format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rich_Text_Format))
- `texinfo` ([GNU Texinfo](https://www.gnu.org/software/texinfo/))
- `textile` ([Textile](https://textile-lang.com))
- `slideous` ([Slideous](https://goessner.net/articles/slideous/) HTML
  and JavaScript slide show)
- `slidy` ([Slidy](https://www.w3.org/Talks/Tools/Slidy2/) HTML and
  JavaScript slide show)
- `dzslides` ([DZSlides](https://paulrouget.com/dzslides/) HTML5 +
  JavaScript slide show)
- `revealjs` ([reveal.js](https://revealjs.com/) HTML5 + JavaScript
  slide show)
- `s5` ([S5](https://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/s5/) HTML and JavaScript
  slide show)
- `tei` ([TEI Simple](https://github.com/TEIC/TEI-Simple))
- `typst` ([typst](https://typst.app))
- `vimdoc`
  ([Vimdoc](https://vimhelp.org/helphelp.txt.html#help-writing))
- `xml` (XML version of native AST)
- `xwiki` ([XWiki
  markup](https://www.xwiki.org/xwiki/bin/view/Documentation/UserGuide/Features/XWikiSyntax/))
- `zimwiki` ([ZimWiki
  markup](https://zim-wiki.org/manual/Help/Wiki_Syntax.html))
- the path of a custom Lua writer, see [Custom readers and
  writers](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#custom-readers-and-writers)
  below

</div>

Pandoc can also produce PDF output via LaTeX, Groff ms, or HTML.

Pandoc’s enhanced version of Markdown includes syntax for tables,
definition lists, metadata blocks, footnotes, citations, math, and much
more. See the User’s Manual below under [Pandoc’s
Markdown](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#pandocs-markdown).

Pandoc has a modular design: it consists of a set of readers, which
parse text in a given format and produce a native representation of the
document (an *abstract syntax tree* or AST), and a set of writers, which
convert this native representation into a target format. Thus, adding an
input or output format requires only adding a reader or writer. Users
can also run custom pandoc filters to modify the intermediate AST (see
the documentation for [filters](https://pandoc.org/filters.html) and
[Lua filters](https://pandoc.org/lua-filters.html)).

Because pandoc’s intermediate representation of a document is less
expressive than many of the formats it converts between, one should not
expect perfect conversions between every format and every other. Pandoc
attempts to preserve the structural elements of a document, but not
formatting details such as margin size. And some document elements, such
as complex tables, may not fit into pandoc’s simple document model.
While conversions from pandoc’s Markdown to all formats aspire to be
perfect, conversions from formats more expressive than pandoc’s Markdown
can be expected to be lossy.

## Installing

Here’s [how to install pandoc](INSTALL.md).

## Documentation

Pandoc’s website contains a full [User’s
Guide](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html). It is also available
[here](MANUAL.txt) as pandoc-flavored Markdown. The website also
contains some [examples of the use of
pandoc](https://pandoc.org/demos.html) and a limited [online
demo](https://pandoc.org/try).

## Cambridge Collection Patched-specific documentation

See
[Cambridge collection patched workflow](doc/cambridge-collection-patched-workflow.md)
for the changes to the Pandoc docx conversion functionality and its Docker-based workflow.

## Contributing

Pull requests, bug reports, and feature requests are welcome. Please
make sure to read [the contributor guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) before
opening a new issue.

## License

© 2006-2024 John MacFarlane (jgm@berkeley.edu). Released under the
[GPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html "GNU General Public License"),
version 2 or greater. This software carries no warranty of any kind.
(See COPYRIGHT for full copyright and warranty notices.)
